
Introduction
For many, Vincent van Gogh (1853–1890) epitomizes the concept of the artist as mad genius. His mental instability, which at one point drove him to mutilate his own ear, is the stuff of legend, and feeds into the common view of van Gogh as a lone voice in the wilderness, propelled by primitive urges and haunted by unspeakable demons.
简介 
对于许多人来说，文森特·梵高（1853-1890）完美诠释了什么是疯狂的天才艺术家。他精神失常，因此割掉了自己的耳朵，充满传奇色彩，这使人们普遍认为他的生活如荒野孤魂，原始的冲动驱使着他，不可名状的恶魔纠缠着他。

In truth, van Gogh did have a difficult life. The same antipathy toward convention that helped him develop his inimitable (though much-imitated) artistic language also alienated many friends and acquaintances. Frequent breakdowns plagued him in later years. Although they had their emotional components, it is most likely that they were actually epileptic seizures, perhaps exacerbated by the lingering effects of a venereal disease contracted in his youth. Unlucky in love, he displayed fantastically poor judgment in several romantic entanglements before resigning himself to a bachelor’s life. At the age of thirty- seven, and on the brink of the recognition and success that had eluded him for so long, he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
事实上，文森特的确度过了艰难的一生。正是这样的愤世嫉俗，造就了他无可复制的艺术语言（尽管被后世竞相效仿），也因此疏远了亲朋好友。频繁的精神崩溃困扰着他最后的几年。虽然有情感问题的影响，但更有可能真的是癫痫发作，或是被年轻时染上的性病长期困扰所致。情场失意，他对数段情感纠葛的决策都出奇地差，最终只能接受做个单生汉的命运。三十七岁时，作品不被认可，长期与成功无缘，又将文森特推向了崩溃的边缘，最终他死于自残的枪伤。

Yet van Gogh was a thoughtful, intelligent man who expressed himself eloquently and poignantly in three languages. We know this because of a remarkably complete correspondence, which survives thanks to his brother, Theo van Gogh, and Theo’s wife, Johanna. Comprising more than seven hundred letters, it casts a revealing light on an artist whose work, while almost completely disregarded during his lifetime, is considered virtually priceless today.
然而，梵高又是一个体贴又聪明的人，他善用三种语言雄辩而有力地表达自己。幸亏他的弟弟提奥·梵高和提奥的妻子约翰娜保存了完整的往来信件，我们今天才得以借此了解梵高。通过这七百多封信，我们能再次重塑出这个艺术家的形象，他的作品在他活着的时候一文不名，现在却成了无价之宝。

￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼The significance of van Gogh’s relationship with his brother comes through clearly in the letters, the vast majority of which are addressed to Theo, an art dealer in Paris. Despite never actually selling any paintings by his older brother, the younger van Gogh did help the socially awkward Vincent meet other artists. Moreover, Theo’s financial support kept Vincent in paints and canvas. Indeed, nearly every letter to Theo contains either a request for more money or an acknowledgement of a recent remittance. Theo’s unflagging moral support was also a lifeline for his troubled brother. But Vincent was no passive dependent. Rather, his letters demonstrate that he served as a lively interlocutor for his brother in matters both personal and intellectual.
￼
￼与提奥的关系对于梵高的意义，在信件中显露无疑。信件绝大多数是写给提奥的，一个巴黎的艺术商人。尽管他从没真正帮哥哥卖出过任何作品，但提奥确实给不善社交的文森特介绍认识过一些艺术家。此外，提奥一直帮文森特买颜料和帆布，在经济上支持他。事实上，几乎写给提奥的每一封信都向他要钱或确认收到近期汇款。 对于这位屡受困扰的哥哥，提奥不懈的精神支持成了他生命的支柱。但是，文森特也不是一个消极的依赖者，相反，在信件中我们发现，在和弟弟谈论个人生活和理智思维的困扰时，他始终是一个积极的对话者。

Although van Gogh was well versed in literature and art history, as an artist, he was largely self-taught, and, to judge from his early works, hardly a natural-born draftsman. The creative outpouring of his last few years, during which his many famous paintings were created, is best understood in the context of the many struggles that preceded them. These struggles are documented in excruciating detail in his letters, which testify to his dogged pursuit of technical skills such as figure modeling and perspective.
虽然梵高深谙文学和艺术史，但作为一个艺术家，他主要是自学成才，而且，从他早期的作品看，很难发现他天赋异禀。人生的最后几年，他创造力极其旺盛，很多知名的作品创作于此间，正是他不懈地努力追求才有此成就。思索创作的苦恼，事无巨细他都记录信中，我们由此得知他对人物造型、透视等绘画技法孜孜不倦的追求。

At the same time, the letters show the evolution of his theoretical principles. Van Gogh’s astute observations about such artistic role models as Millet and Delacroix certainly do not sound like a lunatic’s ravings. Yet this sophistication is always juxtaposed against a strong work ethic inspired by the humbler occupations. “A painter really ought to work as hard as, say, a shoemaker”; “I plow my canvases as [the peasants] do their fields.”

*梵高对当时艺术界楷模的解读，比如米勒和德拉克洛，表明了他独到敏锐的观察力，而不是疯子的胡言乱语。

同时，书信中也记录了他绘画理念的嬗变历程。梵高对当时堪称艺术界楷模的米勒和德拉克洛瓦敏锐的观察，听起来根本不像一个疯子的胡言乱语。而这种对艺术的纯熟解读，又常常与卑微的劳作者所带给他的道德思考及创作灵感相悖。“画家就得努力工作，像鞋匠那样”；“我耕耘着我的画布，就像农民耕种着土地”。
This selection of excerpts from his letters, by turns contemplative and ornery, passionate and elegiac, aims to convey a fuller sense of this iconic artist’s odyssey. Van Gogh’s own words, illustrated by his own hand, belie his reputation as a maniac and do greater justice to his exuberant and joyous artwork than the caricature that has dominated popular opinion for so long.

本书节录的信件，无论是表现他彷徨思索、脾气暴戾、热情洋溢还是哀痛欲绝，都旨在尽可能全面地重塑这个艺术家传奇般的人生历程。用梵高自己的文字和作品，来证明他并不是个疯子，重新客观地审视他充满创造力和欢快无比的艺术作品，更正人们一直以来对他的误解。
*这些出自梵高之手的文字，为他被冠以疯狂的名声正了名。这些流传下来的文字也比坊间流传的说法更加说明这些误解。

editor’s note
Unless otherwise indicated, the letters from which the excerpts in this book are drawn are addressed to Theo. Most of the letters were undated; estimated dates appear in brackets. The numbering system follows the one established by Johanna Bonger-van Gogh in her edition of her brother-in-law’s correspondence (see the bibliography). Images of the letters themselves, or of drawings included with a letter, are labeled with the number of the letter. Numbers with a dagger mark (†) indicate images that are referred to in the text of the letter.
编者记
除非另具说明，从本书中摘录的信件均写给提奥。大部分信件都是未注明日期;估计的时间备注于括号中。本书编号系统与约翰娜·凡高-邦格（梵高的弟媳）的编辑版本相一致（见参考书目）。信件的影印图片和所附画作，都以信件编号为准，文中提及的画作以剑号(†)标记。



Part I 1875–1881
Vincent van Gogh didn’t find his calling as an artist until his mid-twenties. Before then, he dabbled in art dealership, teaching, and various permutations of religious service. Yet even during these early years, his letters reveal certain characteristics that were to remain consistent throughout his life.
第一部分1875-1881 
文森特·梵高直到二十多岁才自己作为艺术家的使命。此前，他涉足过艺术品买卖，还做过老师和各类神职。然而，即使他早期的信件也流露出鲜明的个性，并始终如一，保持终身。
Foremost among these is his ability to find solace and inspiration in landscapes and nature. His letters from London, The Hague, and other locales throughout northern Europe contain many lyrical descriptions of his surroundings. Such pastoral elements of his thought combined in these early days with his deeply felt piety (his father was a minister). Although Vincent was eventually to renounce his religious beliefs, his love of nature was to prove more long lived.
他个性中最突出的一点就是，他总能在风景和自然中寻得心灵的慰藉和创作的灵感。他的信，无论寄自伦敦，海牙还是欧洲北部，都在抒情地描绘着他所处的环境。在他创作初期，他田园牧歌般的情愫和虔诚的信仰结合在了一起（他的父亲是一位牧师）。虽然文森特最终放弃他的宗教信仰，而他对自然的热爱却丝毫未减。 

Another perennial interest that manifested in his youth was his fascination with rural life and manual laborers. In an awkward and brief stint as a missionary in the Belgian coal region of the Borinage, Vincent sketched scenes from the miners’ daily life; these drawings complement his poignant descriptions of their hard lot. Indeed, it was during this time that his interest in the ministry gave way to his new ambition to be an artist.
他青年时期，还有另一个持久的兴趣点，就是着迷于描绘农村生活和体力劳动者。
在比利时的矿区博里纳日，文森特尴尬而短暂地担任过传教士，期间他就以矿工的生活场景作为创作题材；这些画作也是他辛酸地讲述矿工艰苦生活的最好注解。
事实上，正是在此期间，他的对神学的兴趣让位于要成为艺术家的志向 。 


Van Gogh remained remarkably devoted to the same artistic influences throughout his career, despite changes in his own work. In particular, his admiration for the French artist Jean-Francois Millet emerges in his early letters and sketches as well as in his most accomplished works in the last years of his life. Millet’s affectionate yet dignified portrayal of peasant life appealed greatly to van Gogh.
在他的整个职业生涯中，尽管他自己的作品风格几经变化，但他却始终受到同一艺术风格的显著影响。特别是他对法国艺术家让·弗朗索瓦·米勒的敬仰之情，流露在他早期的信件和草图中，以及他去世前几年最有成就的作品中。米勒对农村生活充满深情而又不失端庄的写照对梵高产生了巨大的影响。 

Finally, we see in his earliest letters the mutual fondness between Vincent and his younger brother, Theo, an art dealer. After he declared himself an artist, Vincent depended almost exclusively on Theo’s faithful support. This fraternal bond was the most significant relationship in Vincent’s life, and sustained him emotionally, intellectually, and financially to an extent that is difficult to overstate.
最后，我们能在他最早期的书信中，看到文森特和他的弟弟西奥——一个艺术品商人之间的情谊。 梵高自宣称要成为艺术家之后，几乎完全仰赖西奥对他忠实地支持。这份兄弟情谊是文森特一生中最重要的亲友关系，是他情感、思维和经济上的支柱，其重要程度无以复加 。


london, 18 april, 1875
25 
Enclosed I am sending you a small drawing. I made it last Sunday, the morning my landlady’s little daughter died (she was thirteen years old). It is a view of Streatham Common, a large grassed-over area with oak trees and broom. It had been raining during the night and the ground was soggy here and there, and the young spring grass fresh and green.

伦敦，1875年4月18日
25 
附上我的一幅小画，画于上周日，那天早上，房东太太的小女儿死了（她才十三岁）。我画的是斯特里汉姆公园，一大片草木丰茂的绿地，橡树围绕，鲜花丛生。前一天夜里一直下雨，土地都湿透了，春天的嫩草清新鲜绿。


ramsgate, 21 april, 1876
62
I really wish you could have a look through the school window. The house is situated on a square (all the houses around it are the same, as is often the case here). In the middle of the square is a large stretch of grass, enclosed by an iron fence and surrounded by lilac bushes; the boys play there in the midday break. The house where I have my room is in the same square.

拉姆斯盖特，1876年4月21日
62 
我真希望你也能看到学校窗外的风景。学校的房子坐落于一个广场（周围所有的房子看上去都一样的，在这儿是司空见惯的事）。广场的中间是一大片草地，四周围着铁栅栏和丁香花丛，午休时，孩子们都在那儿玩耍。我住的房间也在这个广场。

























